which is really what you should
acknowledge is that sometimes just bad
[ __ ] happens and you don't deserve it
but your inability to like experience
that means that you've got this weird
like you're like a septic tank that's
just full and like never drains because
like bad [ __ ] happens to you and happens
to you and happens to you and no one and
you just blame yourself and so like no
like the blame just sits within you
you're like just just the cesspool of
you know stuff
so welcome and what am I welcome LS is
that what we're calling you yeah okay
yeah I guess okay and everyone is trying
to confuse me what is trying to tell me
I don't know what that means is that
short for something so it meant last
shadow up until 2012 but the reason that
everyone means it is
I don't know they've changed the Ellen
the s2 whatever is needed to fit I mean
got it nice so it's a very dynamic yeah
yeah so if I dr k is dr k or dr.
kangaroo or the democratic republic of
korea yeah exactly exactly
okay okay so tell me um tell me a little
bit about what we're talking about today
and how so yeah so initially I didn't
want to come on the stream but then more
and more requests and I just figured
I've talked about my life story a few
times on stream in the past and so I
figured it would be no different than
just talking about it with you and so I
guess we'll just talk about that um I
went through III I had tweeted out jump
in for a second yeah God so why can you
help me understand the feelings of not
wanting to come on stream because those
are like very reasonable feelings I'm
sure so okay so every single time I've
talked about the life short story I've
always downloaded the bottom then
deleted it and the the reason being is
because I didn't want anyone to twist
anything but I would say and then if
anyone ever attempted to I had the bog
downloaded in case someone tried saying
that I said something I didn't but also
it was always something that I just did
to try to help people relate or try to
help people understand that depression
is a really weird thing and that anxiety
is a demon as well and that there's ways
to
get through it alright see I don't know
how to like word this basically III
struggle every single day ever every
single day is a complete nightmare and
yet I'm here and I've been dealing with
this now for the last 17 years of my
life though yeah pretty pretty much that
I don't want to have this stuff that I
talk about used against me and it has
been in this industry specifically
several times even even within the last
couple of years I've had my diagnosis
actually brought up in reference to my
stability or my ability to do certain
things and that always has just struck
me as odd because it's clearly never
impeded me up to this point and then I
never intend to let it do as such so
that's impressive that you know you've
done such a good job with these
diagnoses and also really sucks that
people have used that against you like
very just like discreetly like
explicitly used it against you yeah but
I think it's I think it's standard I I
think mental illness is just taboo and
then especially out here in Korea mental
illness is really really taboo I can
imagine so it's that compact yeah that
compounded with a lot of things is
definitely interesting you know
interesting thing about mental illness
in Korea and taboo apparently what's not
taboo there is video game addiction or
at least not as taboo as it is here in
the sense that I've heard that they're
actually like brick and mortar buildings
that treat video game addiction like
they're they have like video game
addiction clinics in South Korea
right okay I don't I don't know about
that I don't have video game Academy is
the best school the best research about
so okay we got a level 4 hype train ok I
don't know what that means I still don't
understand the stuff but so so the best
research on video game addiction
actually comes out of Korea and that's
because they treat it the most seriously
and they've been treating him for a
while but okay so I'm sorry that people
have used it against you I really hope
that that doesn't happen here and I'm
really grateful that you're coming on
and actually the mission that you've
been adopting which is sort of like
showing people that you can struggle
with depression or anxiety or whatnot
and still have you know hopefully a
healthy I'm clear to me if you're happy
but I wouldn't call it a fake no yeah so
that is unfortunate let's see if we can
do something about that
okay I I to think that you know mental
illness is stigmatized and a lot of what
I do here is is to D stigmatize it and I
guess it's good that a lot of people who
after watching the stream or giving
therapy a shot which i think is
fantastic just any clear though you know
this is not therapy and you understand
that right yeah okay so tell me a little
bit about what what you mean by
depression or anxiety
I guess my depression is nothing nothing
really matters to me it's it's like a
it's like a form of summit syndrome what
does that mean I remember summit
syndrome being that every single time
you hit what you set as the highest goal
it's not enough there's just an
emptiness there's a void there's nothing
that satisfactory I remember because I
was actually homeless twice even in
Korea and I remember one time in 2013 I
was I was living in Busan with my
boyfriend at the time and I only had a
couple hundred dollars to my name and I
remember thinking that I was supposed to
potentially get a job casting
potentially for StarCraft actually and
if I got that I had envisioned like you
know I would be making more money and I
thought that that money would be like
very glorious or very enjoyable and
about a year and a half later in
entirely different circumstances I ended
up having that amount of income and more
and I just felt empty and it wasn't
enough and then I look back on it and
I'm like but I I'm somewhere now where I
dreamed of being before and then I had
another milestone and it didn't do
anything and then I had another
milestone and it did nothing and nothing
would really I mean still nothing really
brings me happiness it brings me to
neutrality and the neutrality is a
calmness it's like someone's sitting on
you and when they eventually get up it
just feels like a lot of relief
I have glimpses of that very rarely
nowadays but I would I would probably
say that's what my happiness is because
it feels like there's no wait there's no
pressure
there's no
noise III refer to as noise when all the
images just keep raising peaceful
no not peaceful okay just feels like I
can breathe or it feels like I can I can
hear my own thoughts without the images
racing in my mind's and I can
I don't feel the tension all across my
body
I don't feel the sensation of like did
you drop your wallet in your back pocket
you know and did you just forget it on a
train or something you just have someone
steal something from you I feel that
never ending all the time and some
mornings it's really hard to obviously
get out of bed and other mornings or
nights or something I just don't want to
do anything sometimes in front of the
stream I'll sit there with the stream
labs open for 30 minutes 45 minutes and
I just can't hit play and people don't
realize it but anytime there's a
necessity to do something fear always
motivates me and so I would say that
fear is my number one motivator in my
entire life fear of ever going back to
what I was at before and obviously the
poverty the homelessness
Travie lack of security the pre Korea so
I don't think look so do you think fear
in your life is a good thing or a bad
thing
I guess kept me alive
so III III would it's weird to say that
obviously it's it's not good that this
is what's necessary to keep me walking
or something but there's nothing else
yes I'll ask you again is is fear in
your life a good thing or a bad thing I
realize I'm oversimplifying the question
but I'm doing it no I know I identify
that inherently it's bad but as it
stands right now it's good it's very
good so it's important for you to
understand that right so I wouldn't even
say inherently it's bad I'd say
theoretically it's bad is that a better
way to throat it yeah right so like
we've heard that fear is bad and to live
a life based on fear as your primary
emotion sounds like it sucks but for you
it's actually very very important yeah
and so the dangerous thing here is that
you're living a life where there's
probably a very large part of you that
doesn't want the fear to leave
yeah but III don't chase it though I
don't put myself in circumstances where
I would feel more fair than I would have
to yeah I don't seek it I I never want
to induce more fear yes but I do notice
that if I if I tend to get lazy or if I
tend to get complacent for too long yet
it enhances a lot and then I go into
overdrive and then the cycle begins so I
think this is yeah go ahead sorry keep
going oh sorry
oh my monitors just went out because no
mouse activity sorry okay go ahead no
you were saying something
no it tends to operate and in cycles and
I have identified that it's in cycles
and I've in recent years tried to become
more cognizant of the cycles and habits
and patterns that exist and I've tried
to manage them time them identify
triggers all this other stuff and
obviously compounding off all the stuff
that I've learned from all the years of
therapy all the clinicians all the
psychologists psychiatrists everything
I've ever read and it's all just about
managing it and trying to identify it
but it honestly it feels really [ __ ]
hopeless and again there's no purpose
but
uh I don't know how I would phrase this
I must do what I'm doing now
in case there is eventually a purpose
yeah absolutely that's that I don't have
a choice yeah I mean what are you
feeling right now
I just don't have a choice everything I
do I don't have a choice how does I mean
I have I have a choice in regards to do
I want to string today do I not want to
string today I have a choice of do I
want to sign this contract do I not want
to sign this contract but the fear
ultimately decides through whatever type
of rationale used what is most optimal
or what is what is most logical in order
to further separate me from what is
causing the fear and so then I always
just keep what is it like
I don't know but I'm thankful that I
didn't have a choice because I think if
I had choices I wouldn't have ended up
here or maybe it maybe I would have
because of the the thing I mentioned to
you prior to coming on the stream in
regards to one of my last psychiatrists
gave me the choice to go on disability
insurance and I didn't want to what do
you mean by that if you had a choice you
wouldn't be here what does that mean if
I could if there was alternative ways
for me to have just functioned without
being thrown by the wayside because I
was facing homelessness in the United
States and I didn't have really any way
to return to so what was the option end
up on the streets or end up doing
god-knows-what I I don't really know can
you hold on a second yeah yeah just
problem I'm gonna just think for a
second mm-hmm sorry I didn't mean to
disrupt your flow but no that's okay
there's a lot that you're saying that I
think is very important the thing is
it's coming out at such a pace that I'm
feeling hard it's it's hard for me to
keep track of some of the things you're
saying sorry I looked at Twitter shot
they're very funny
I won't I'll keep chat yeah a PM is way
too high it's like a manner pause when
I'm getting xored rushed yeah five pull
LSS five pulled me oh five blast birdboy
yeah man
old school that is that's boomer
technology that is five full I pledge no
cool yeah there you go
okay can you tell me what your
experience was like with with treaters
treaters like clinicians inside I
remember the first one I was ever that I
ever went to my mom told me that I had
to go see someone
and I didn't know why was and when mom
said you had to go see someone
so I I had a lot of doctors growing up
because I was always really sick I had
three nebulizer treatments a day I had
an allergen allergen an asthma doctor
that I would see a couple of times a
week I was on benadryl twice a day or as
needed albuterol as needed I was always
really sick and so I had my usual
stalkers and then my mom told me that I
had to go see another doctor and I
didn't know why and I arrived at this
doctor's office and I started talking to
him and he just told me that there was a
lot of weird stuff with me like socially
and apparently it's because I didn't get
along with my little league teammates or
something because my mom had signed me
up for baseball and I didn't get along
with them and I didn't socialize with
them I wouldn't talk to them and
whatever and she found the behavior very
avoidin or very antisocial and she
thought that it was very alarming
because my mom is in psychiatry as well
and so then she had sent me to a doctor
for you know she's identifying the signs
or patterns or whatever so that that's
what uh that's what was going on there I
got to him and he was telling me that
there was concerning behaviors and I I
didn't know what the hell he was talking
about the reality in my eyes what it was
is
my uncle's had started me on everything
way earlier than my peers and so what I
mean by that is like age four or five
they were teaching me like math or stuff
about like riddles or puzzles and stuff
way before you know first grade second
grade third graders is supposed to know
about this stuff but also anything that
I did with sports my uncle's would drill
me on quite literally so Wells you
question II would be yeah I got do you
get to be who you are uh no well it
depends what you mean everyone that ever
meets me offline says I'm I'm always
different than what they believe me to
be from my stream persona or that
there's a lot of different modes of me
and I would agree well I wouldn't agree
I I would agree that there's different
modes depending on what people around me
are doing and what that means in terms
of yeah believe so
can you tell me about that person um I
know I know I'm very bitter and I know
I'm very angry at time lost and I
displaced blame a lot on other things
that I felt like was outside of my
control or that was unjust and I've
tried to find ways to forgive it
or let it go if that makes sense
but then wait I care about you displace
blame on things that are outside of your
control
yeah like I was between placing blame on
things that are outside of your control
in displacing things that are outside of
your control like that there's there's
dual purpose in the sense that maybe
there was alternatives so there was
different options that I could have
taken that maybe I wasn't aware of at
the time and so maybe my belief that was
outside of my control isn't totally just
so you blame ourselves for things that
are outside of your control I ponder if
if it if I should blame myself
I I perceive it to be outside of my
control
but then when I go through and I do the
rodeo with myself from my younger years
or even current years I try to think was
it my fault so let me tell you what I'm
hearing okay yeah so I think you're a
smart guy and I think sometimes that
makes life hard because you're able to
think through things and understand
things but there's this is a subtle
subtle point and maybe I'm making a
mountain out of a molehill
you said you displace things you
displace blame on things that are
outside of your control so when I think
about displaced blame I think about
someone who's like not attributing blame
to where it belongs
right so if you displace blame onto me
for something that is your fault that is
like it's not really my fault it's
actually your fault and that you
displace that blame onto external things
that are outside of your control that
implies to me that you actually blame
yourself for things that outside of your
control yes because I I think that there
I know that sounds really weird but I
because of the rodeo that I've been
through I sort of do blame myself for
these things yes yeah
yeah okay but we're gonna put a pin in
that we're gonna come back to it okay
okay tell me about your uncle's my
uncle's got me into gaming really early
on started with Zelda Link to the Past
and Final Fantasy 3 when I was like two
and three years old and then three
shadow it's actually what my ID is from
flash shadow and so did you save an
absolutely yeah you know and it gotta
get gogo and amaru and all of them so
you know III love Final Fantasy 3 it's
best FF yeah okay all right so then
Tekken killer instincts
Saturday night slam masters combats my
uncles were really competitive at games
yeah their sister your sisters brothers
my mother yes sir others brothers yeah
my mother is 15 years nine months older
than me my uncle
one of my uncle's is 14 years older than
me and my other uncle is seven years
nine months older than me and so they
were sort of just like big brothers and
so they got me into gaming really early
on they got me into a lot of stuff
really early on they got me thinking
critically because my you know they
would do different stuff they used to
play like Mortal Kombat they would take
it really serious they travel or on to
arcades and stuff they would they would
write down combos they would write down
HP percentages you know were you it was
fun it was exciting I remember because
they used well sometimes they'd have
their high school friends come over and
they would have them play against me
like for fun and their friends would
think it's a joke or something and then
they would lose to a four-year-old yeah
so I I used to think it was so fun put
those noobs in their place exactly
so I'm gonna do man listen yeah if you
guys take nothing else away from the
stream you got to understand that your
mission of life is to put noobs in their
place you got to do no one else is gonna
do it unless you rise to the challenge
so that's that's how it started and then
there was a time attack mode and
punch-out and super punch-out on Super
Nintendo and then sometimes they do like
how fast they could complete Mario
levels and so I was always thinking like
about stuff like puzzles and speed okay
and then I had a very early headstart on
like math English everything I mean how
did you do you remember how you felt
during that time um I felt really good
to be included or not I felt really cool
to be hanging out with my uncles and I
felt really cool that I was getting to
learn stuff that my friends didn't but
then it also made me feel detached from
my friends okay did you like being
yourself I liked learning and I was
course I was actually bullied for it uh
well I was I was bullied a lot all my
life up until high school mostly because
I was a kid laughs again I was the sick
kid so I always went to the nurse's
office I had super super pale skin my
hair was like bleach blond white and so
I looked kind of like gross and my
clothes weren't like the best and stuff
so the fact that I was like very nerdy
and into games and like math and
learning stuff and reading books and it
wasn't very good and in kindergarten
elementary school junior high I'm gonna
ask questions that are just all over the
place so hey allergies so you said that
you had some problems with like
allergies and asthma and stuff like that
and you were taking AB you Lizer
treatments
are you still in treatment for like a
topic stuff like asthma or
so I actually have my ad bear behind me
I've had to use it more this year than I
have in the last ten which i think is
just sort of coincidence but I've
actually had to ask my attacks this year
which is pretty scary it's pretty weird
because I haven't I haven't struggled
with my asthma since I was a teenager
once puberty hit my asthma sort of just
went away but my my allergies was
because I had a dog growing up her name
was Sasha and after she passed for some
reason I was allergic to every cat and
every dog like really really really
about allergies I was allergic to dust
pollen grass everything um yeah I was
also tested I had to go to Mass General
because they tested me for cystic
fibrosis because my husband was so bad
yep makes sense
yeah give me a second I'm gonna think
you
I'm gonna need another minute okay
okay okay so I'm gonna ask you like a
couple of one-off questions and then I'm
gonna ask you stuff that's a little bit
more like well like you know you can
talk more
are you are you angry with yourself
Alice I mean yes I'm with myself and at
myself
how long have you is a with myself is
obviously an internal and then out
myself as external yeah how long have
you been feeling that way since I can
remember okay
I know kind of a random question right
no it makes sense why does it make sense
identifying internal self-worth as well
as external perception of oneself I mean
I have audio how I then how I view
myself from an external standpoint as
well as how do I feel internally about
maybe how I perceive myself so it's sort
of both ways like you can feel that your
outward appearance or how your
perception of you is or you can
acknowledge it as such and then
internally feel something totally
different but you I'm okay I still don't
understand it both yeah what is that
angry at both what are you angry at
um I'm angry my inability to obviously
solve this problem right oh that has
plagued me the entire time
and I'm angry at a lot of it who's a
problem well I I think that that's a
really loaded question right I I don't
know how to answer that
I I mean if it why is it a load of
defecation
[Music]
well it's no one's problem right but my
I mean it's it's no one thing or person
in particular it would be a it would be
a culmination of things potentially
right environment or whatever else or it
could be chemical imbalance I have no
idea it's so many things yeah
so it's hard for me pinpoint okay yeah
you're absolutely correct it could be a
lot of different things um okay so but
you're angry with yourself for not being
able to fix this thing yeah and despite
a lot of efforts despite a lot of
efforts right so what is that so it
ultimately feels like failure because
one of the things I strive to do and
anything that I do analytically or
creatively is try to identify problems
understand how they work how they
operate their foundation why they are
the way that they are and then try to
break them down like that but yeah
obviously with myself can't
so is it it when you say you can't
you're saying that you've tried and it
hasn't worked trying trying trying and
failing yeah okay
you are incredibly resilient yeah yeah I
guess yeah do you but it's sort of like
what I yeah I I'm cognizant of that but
again it goes back to the original thing
that we talked about earlier it's do in
case there is in the sense of there's no
purpose yet but in the event there is
one I must do now okay there's no time
for breaks can you can you tell me a
little bit about your experiences with
clinicians what's that what's that been
like there was only three of them that
were really good and the three of them
that were really good they were they
were all female if that matters because
maybe there's something about that
although I don't tend to have a
preference anymore I guess a male to
female but I remember when I was younger
female was my preference for people to
talk to and who I felt comfortable with
mm-hmm
one of them I had three different times
because of the health insurance program
allowed me to have them and because I
was double covered I could basically
have them for one block on one health
insurance card and then another block
and another health insurance card and
then I had them one more time per week
you need no no block I think a block was
six months okay these were like programs
and all three of these women crossed
lines and what I mean by cross lines is
I felt like they they went to bat for me
in ways that other therapists or
psychologists didn't and I know that
they definitely did things that I think
could have lost them their job and in
regards to things that they said to my
parents
in defense of me or even even my school
board one of them outright basically
made the direct statement that the the
the environment in my household was to
blame for everything that was going on
and that the constant deflection and
looking to constantly pull me and put me
in new doctors or clinicians in order to
get one that agreed with what they
thought was part of the problem and that
that was the toxicity in itself sounds I
remember the various I remember the the
last night the last psychiatrist that I
didn't go to I had an evaluation with
one of my parents just walked out on the
session a due to something that was said
which I don't want to go into I'm sure I
dream but it was definitely it was it
was a holy [ __ ] that just happened
moment for me because I never up there
to me something I felt like
[ __ ] cheering or something like I
felt like crying because this guy just I
don't know like snapped his fingers
within an hour and just said I know
what's going on here and said it
point-blank I had to walk home that day
it was it was a six mile walk home so I
got like to hug his office um I was I
was alone when I got home I was alone a
lot from 13 to 17 I was alone a lot
the other two therapists that you said
were really good were not this
psychiatrist these are other women who
went nowhere yeah
they were in the same program as whereas
that sounds so basically once the
program would cut one of the clinicians
I would move on to another one
mm-hm and so there were just cycles and
cover yeah what so what did they do that
from the appointments the appointments
were only supposed to be like one hour
but they would go over by a lot just to
talk about random stuff I know that the
expenses were only supposed to cover
like $10 per visit because we would we
would drive somewhere like a coffee shop
or a cafe but they would pay
out-of-pocket so we could go nicer
places and to my knowledge
III don't know if they did this with
other clients or something but it felt
nice but we talked about like a lot of
yeah it sort of felt like a mom I know
that sound and it sounds really weird
but that's how it it's it really I
looked forward to the the therapy
appointments because they were common it
felt like I could talk to someone that
wasn't judging me about anything and
that actually cared about what I was
saying to them okay
so we've got a couple of options LS yeah
the first is there are some things that
I can just I can just start talking and
sort of share what I think with you at
this point the chances that I'm wrong or
way higher them the chances that I'm
right because I'm gonna make a lot of
really bold claims I don't know I think
a piece of that is gonna be almost like
ego gratifying because I feel like I
understand you and I understand a lot of
your problems I don't know that that
actually helps you though because that's
I think that's really more for my
benefit and showmanship than actually
trying to help you so
or but but I also sort of do recognize
that sometimes when people talk to me
and you know they're they're not looking
to necessarily be asked a thousand
questions they're really looking more
for answers so I'll kind of leave it up
to you what would you rather have me do
because I still have a lot of questions
that I want to ask and I can try to walk
you to things in a little bit probably
more productive way although it'll be
slower or we can kind of jump to the
punch line of the joke but chances are
that it's not going to be as funny
because I haven't said the whole joke
like the punchline is only funny if you
like hear the whole joke right yeah so
what what do you want to do should I ask
you more questions or should I share
some thoughts you can ask more if you
want because I mean we're barely
touching on age 13 it gets really bad
the next few years that's when that's
when the therapy kicked up to 25 30
hours that's the hospitalizations that's
the the suicide stuff that's the yeah
that'sthat's the dark period that's the
not going to school the truancy the
courts the wayward petitions the judges
juvenile detention center yeah that's
all of that stuff I know this is gonna
sound strange but I'm not so interested
in that okay I know it's weird but I
know I think I think that's sort of the
I don't know how to put this beyond I
think that the setup for all that stuff
has already happened okay
but if you'd like me to ask you more
questions I have questions kind of not
so much about the details because I mean
kind of I know you've watched dreams
before so sometimes people will talk
like you know they'll start talking
about for example bipolar disorder
anxiety
we don't necessarily go into that stuff
I think a lot of that stuff is
clinically very relevant but I I don't
know that what I'm doing I mean what I'm
doing here is not clinical so in a sense
a lot of those very important details
like don't get me wrong incredibly
important I have no doubt that that's
actually vitally important stuff but
what I'm sensing from you is like like
something that's a little bit more
fundamental in terms of the way that you
look at yourself the way that you formed
in an opinion about yourself the way
that you were treated and what has
worked in therapy so like
so what what I mean we can talk more
about your history if you'd like but
that's not the direction of questions
that I have although we may get there
I'm not so interested in details I'm
interested in sort of your sense of how
you experience certain things and how
you view certain model so more questions
as you think best to proceed I've gone
down so many different lines if that's
what you want to call them with
different therapy sessions all right you
know what I mean let's ask let's ask
twitch chat then twitch chat what should
we do should we do questions or share
our thoughts
questions okay ask more okay so tinny
tell me a little bit about you said your
mom was a is in psychiatry she works on
the psychiatric unit okay and is it okay
if I ask in what capacity
mmm I don't want to give away too much
okay sure
I'm not run yeah no I mean there's a
reason why I asked is it okay if I ask
yeah yeah I'm curious cuz um okay and
you haven't mentioned anything about
your dad um my dad uh so he was autumn I
he was in my life until like four or
five and then he disappeared until I was
like nine or ten and then he was in and
out my stepmother
however is active she's actively still
in my life along with my grandmother
I've talked to my mother I've seen my
mother once in the last decade and I've
talked to her less than a handful of
times but I haven't talked to her now in
four years he life father it's by my
choice I tried to make I tried to make
stuff hat or work or something the last
time I was there or in Rhode Island that
was worlds 2016 and it didn't seem like
there was anything I could say or do
that would allow us to not be stuck in
2008 or 2009 or anything like that are
you guys stuck in 2008 and 2004 we get
there let me ask you something yeah in
your professional career yeah when
people talk about depression and it
impacts you negatively does it feel like
people are using a part of you against
you
it feels like a cop-out because anyone
who's willing to use something like that
against me doesn't possess enough
knowledge of it in the first off to even
talk about it second off to make that
assertion and then third off it I think
it shows on a pretty surface level that
they're they're ignorant and they're not
willing to go deeper because there's so
many questions that can branch out from
mmm-hmm depression that's so far more
rational and collected answer than I was
expecting
it's a far more forgiving answer than I
was expecting
okay how are you with forgiveness I tend
not to hold grudges and with other
played yeah with other people and I can
I can feel a lot of vindictive feelings
in in very brief moments but if I know
them to be wrong or unjust or something
else it doesn't really matter to me all
that much so you're I've had like a
vindictiveness or anger towards others
don't matter they don't matter because I
I realized that it doesn't do anything
like I don't I don't know how to explain
this but like nothing good comes of it I
I've had I've had a lot of money stolen
from me for instance in recent years by
people that were close to me or people
that had access to my like PayPal Gmail
etc right people that I had trusted or
confided him and at the end of the day
um it wasn't enough to make me lose
sleep and there was reasons that they
were in that spot that they felt like
they had to do that and so I tried to
you know recover or get back as much as
I possibly could and for what I couldn't
it's my fault
and even if they made a bad choice in a
bad action I could have done more
preventive measures which I do now but I
don't [ __ ] here because it's not
something that caused me harm I think
the only things that I would ever hold
severe grudges over is maybe something
that attempted to seriously harm me but
I haven't encountered something like
that I'm lying I'm sorry I'm not like
I'm not intentionally lying there's one
thing but I won't talk about it under
stream that happened two and a half ago
let me just let me see if I understand
you when someone steals money from you
whose fault is it ultimately it's mine
because I I gave the person the ability
to do that
okay and there's ways that I could have
prevented it which I know now so even
though they made the choice I made
myself vulnerable so there's definitely
a way where we can say that it's not my
fault but because I know now what I
didn't know then it just wouldn't happen
now compared to before how long is your
fault
I think most things are I think most bad
things that end up happening to me I end
up looking back at it and being like
yeah I could have made a different play
or I took the I took how long have
things been your fault anything bad
since I can remember of course okay now
I'm gonna share some thoughts hmm hold
on a second
do you blame your mom for y'all's
relationship I try to understand her
point of view which I was I I think now
you try to hide your point of view both
I try to empathize with her
do you like if I had yes I try to do
both and then I get stuck in this this
weird limbo where I don't know what to
think like I try to imagine if I had an
11 year old right now holy [ __ ] I don't
[ __ ] know what I would do but also
what would that have done to me at 17 18
19 20 21 I can't how do you empathize
with yourself what what that was that
was very helpful by the way when you
sort of said like if I had an 11 year
old right now I don't know what I would
do so you try to put yourself in her
shoes you try to be understanding even
when it sounds like people are like
steal money from you you sort of try to
understand that they were in a desperate
of desperation a lot a lot of people see
people with problems and they don't care
about
well what made them that way there's
always a story doesn't just happen
unless we're talking about psychopathy
or something but that's a different
demon you don't look at people who are
actively stealing or they're doing
things and think that's just who they
are
no that's who they became as a byproduct
of so Alice how did you become the way
that you are what is a story
what made you into the person that you
are so I think the way that I perceive
things I think is obviously a byproduct
of the way that my uncle's race or
raised me in terms of like how I think
like structured or puzzles and whatnot
but I think that the lack of Russian
affection okay sorry yeah the the lack
of affection and emotional stuff stems
from I think no one ever really
understood me from my family
due to an accelerated childhood leading
to me feeling detached from my peers
around me to to feeling intellectually
accelerated than them thus creating a
disconnect okay okay stop cetera et
cetera well I mean this that was my yeah
all right okay LS so there's one thing
right so one is that no one asks the
question of why they became why they're
doing the things that they're doing and
how they got to be that way right and
then I asked you the question which is
actually the first question how did you
become the way that you are but I think
the real question is who didn't ask why
you are the way you are who didn't give
you the benefit of the doubt that you
give everyone who hurts you that that's
that's that's the very question for
therapists that meant the most to me
asked the school board the same way that
you just phrased it almost
and I remember I remember the room that
day I just remember the look on
everyone's face
because obviously it no one does ask
that
can you hear me yeah okay what was the
question that they added that she asked
the school board she asked the school
board all of you got all of you were
talking about the things that he's doing
or why he's behaving this way but none
of you are asking why or what's causing
him to act like this and the look on
everyone's face including my mother's
was just they were stupefied
as if they obviously don't have an
explanation because they're ignoring
mrs. so it that felt really good
because I knew obviously there's reasons
I'm doing the things that I'm doing and
it just felt like no one cared about
what I felt or how I was feeling because
I I felt so out of place growing up
constantly
yeah I mean I've always thought alone
I still feel alone which maybe is I mean
we can get into this maybe later on but
like there's lots of people around me
and I I try to allow my house to be open
to like pros that want to come out here
in bootcamp or I try to help boot
campers get set up and stuff cuz it's
stuff that I would have been Droid when
I was younger or that I needed when I
was younger but also I realized that
maybe there's like a there's a there's a
compound there where I'm extremely
lonely and so it's a way of feeling like
there's family okay yeah I'm gonna share
some thoughts and I think we had we were
skirting on the surface of some stuff
that I thought was pretty significant
but I I'm not quite sure why so first
thing Ellis is I think I think you can
get better and I think you can feel
better let me put it that way I don't
think you have to continue feeling the
way that you are and I don't think that
it is your fault that you feel the way
that you do and I think that the
challenge here is that
no one showed you how to cut yourself a
break for your behavior
and you don't cut yourself a break you
write you you sort of ask the question
you come up with a beautiful intelligent
highly accurate theory about why you are
the way that you are but you don't
you don't let that take the bite out of
your self-hatred
the goal of saying that there like this
kid is not so like the goal of asking
why is this kid acting out is to explain
to everyone and for everyone to be on
the same page that it's not this kids
fault that he's not succeeding
and so I think that you you're able to
construct a theory of like why you're
the way that you are but I don't think
you let that theory absolve you of
responsibility
that make sense yeah no my sons and our
that's a fancy ass way of saying
forgiveness which is something that I
think is very alien to you when it comes
to you so you blame yourself for all
kinds of things even when it's not your
fault and this starts with the
displacing blame and then ends up with
this frankly really [ __ ] weirdly
cognitively distorted thing about when
people steal from you it's their fault
and like I get that if your Buddha or
Jesus fine but you're not and neither am
i so there's something weird going on
there and so then we get to all kinds of
judge this is just weird I mean this is
[ __ ] weird so first of all very very
severe asthma allergy benadryl three
nebulizers a day that resolves around
teenagers so asthma gets better and
teenagers people tend to grow out of it
but we're talking about a very very
severe illness that basically disappears
and then is gone for a decade what
happens people grow out of it absolutely
happens allergies that get to cats and
dogs that get worse after a cat dies dog
dog yeah it's kind of weird
thousands of hours of therapy shunting
you off to treat er after treat her
after treat her because you're sick and
you're broken
who thought you were sick and broken my
entire mother's side of the family my
dad didn't know what to think and my
stepmother thought that I was fine okay
so this sounds like some I mean I'm
gonna toss out a word that is that is
sort of a diagnostic thing which I I'm
not trying to be irresponsible because I
have no way of diagnosing this I don't
know I don't have one percent of the
information that I should have before
using these words this is some
Munchausen's by proxy level [ __ ] man do
you know what that is
yeah that's so
yeah Munchausen is when the the the
parent over medicates the child and
actually makes them sick
I know all about it it was looked into
during my adolescence and stuff it was a
very big argument during custody so so
like I don't know that this actually is
what happened but like I'm getting the
sense because I've seen this before
where like it's like someone has the
perception that the child is just sick
and needs to be fixed and needs to be
fixed and needs to be fixed and since
it's get sense to treat her and treat
her and treat her and treat her and
treat her and I have no doubt that you
know you actually had symptoms and stuff
like that because a lot of these have
like objective tests and it's not that
it's all psychological I mean so like
your your physical health seems very
psychosomatic to me which means that
there's an influence of mind and body
which is sort of like what I am
interested in and so it sort of makes
sense like you know I'd be wondering if
you if you've had two asthma attacks
over the last year like what's been
going on so there's like good evidence
that stress makes atopic disease worse
so you have atopic disease asthma
allergies things like that eczema is
another thing that you may have so like
these are all atopic diseases that are
reduced to stress chronic inflammatory
diseases that relate to stress this is
weird the other thing is that there is
one reason there's one common factor
that I've seen time and time and time
again as to why everyone blames
themselves
and it's actually like the most
devastating lesson I learned in
psychiatry so and it comes down to
theory of mind so when you're a young
child and before you have conceptions of
other people's theory like like other
people's existence so like like if I do
something to you that lasts like let's
say I smack you across the face whose
fault is that
I assume you're an [ __ ] yes that is
the correct answer I was shaking my head
for a second because I think of all the
people that are gonna bend over
backwards and say that it's it's not my
fault in that it's your fault you're
gonna say that because that's what you
say about most things which would kind
of prove my point and that gets to the
punchline but anyway so it's my fault
right if I punch you across the face
it's my fault now if you do not have a
conception that other human beings exist
and you get hurt
whose fault is that
mine absolutely because you're the only
thing that exists right yeah if you're
like if you're sitting in a room by
yourself and like no one is there and
you like feel pain like whose fault is
that
then yeah it's mine so this is what's so
devastating about abuse of very very
young children so when children are
super super young they don't have theory
of mind and so when they get abused and
they get hurt they don't understand that
like it's an adult that's hurting them
they think it's their fault and they
develop this sense that like when people
hurt me it's my fault because that's
what they were
in the one thread that I hear from you
time and time and time again is first of
all you get blamed for being who you are
people don't cut you slack you don't get
to be yourself whether it's pushing you
to do riddles or being judged for being
depressed and professional impacts I
don't even know we talked a little bit
about wayward and stuff like that you
know before you came on stream but like
I can imagine that that you know your
mom didn't treat you like a son like she
treated you like a problem like she
didn't let you be you and you know your
words not mine in terms of the three
therapists that helped you like how did
they help you they didn't help you
through therapy they helped you through
caring because like you can have
thousands of hours of therapy and if you
don't have like a clinical problem like
if it's not like like no wonder nothing
is working because it's not like and
this I shared with you before stream as
well like I I once had a very wise
psychiatrist tell me and blew my mind
because I've been testing this ever
since he told me this if you ever see a
patient who has three diagnoses they're
all wrong because that's just not I mean
I don't know that that's absolutely true
but I think a lot of times people get
labeled with diagnoses and they get put
into treatment and like everyone is
missing the point because they're trying
to treat like this thing over here but
that's not the problem so in your case I
think first of all somewhere along the
way you and my hype I'm telling you like
I mean I've I don't know if I've talked
about this before publicly but I talked
about this a fair amount it's just it
when you have young children who were
abused this is the this is the way they
think and trauma is the thing that
masquerades is every other like
psychiatric diagnosis
and what what I'm seeing in you is just
like that that you know somewhere along
the way I don't know why but it's like
your mom just didn't let you be you and
she she took the person that you were
and she in her mind or in your own
taught you that that is wrong that like
what you are is pathological and that
you're just like fundamentally like
you're busted in some way and I I think
that you have a lot of these feelings
and I think some of the stuff that
you're doing I mean not say that this is
your fault but you know you talk about
these brief feelings of vindictiveness
and anger and other people like and then
you say to yourself
those are unproductive so you dismiss
them but those are the feelings that you
need to feel to move out this because
those are the feelings that you actually
deserve to feel like that's you know the
process of grieving like involves anger
right like getting pissed at someone
like you don't actually forgive them
because you you can't forgive anyone
unless they hurt you but you don't think
that people hurt you you blame yourself
so you're incapable of forgiving anyone
else like forgiveness requires someone
hurt you and somewhere in there I don't
know if you know how to forgive yourself
but I think I think that's something you
should learn too and we can talk about
more and I mean just as this thread of
like not being allowed to be yourself
right being bullied being given riddles
being pathologized at a young age your
mom trying to get rid of you and you're
apparently teenage years something like
that I mean I don't know if I fully
understand that but you know and and
then there are people who actually like
treat you like what are the therapists
that have helped it's like the people
who have treated you like a person they
let you be like who you are and have
introduced you to a diagnosis have
introduced you to a behavior have
introduced you to a particular thing and
they've said like hey this is a full and
complete person and it's not his fault
and none of you all have the wherewithal
all you guys are doing is you're blaming
LS you're blaming LS you're blaming
Alice and no one is bothering to ask a
lie and then poor thing LS that's what
was modeled for you so that's what you
learned how to do blame yourself blame
yourself blame yourself and there's a
part of you that struggles
intellectually you understand that there
are reasons you are this way and so you
come up with these theories that I think
are really good but that's all up here
it's not in here
that's got to change
you
yeah
[Music]
that's questions
I know that it has to change
it's
the inability because it's aware of
itself and I know it sounds really weird
to talk about it like that but it is
good no it's my one of my therapists
used to call it I remember I got memed
about this or not me and it got joked
about the the therapist called it
something like a I don't remember the
exact phrasing like a chronic chaos
syndrome or something the the need to
cause chaos or chronic or problems in
order to feel normal because it's all
that i-i've known and that it was very
present in my household and so I'm aware
of that what you're saying is accurate
I'm wearing that I'm aware that it's
necessary my brain the way that I think
the way that I construct things the way
that I compartmentalize things won't
allow it to happen
what I said to my my last two shrinks
was I told them both I've done this
rodeo hundreds of hours I'm aware of
this but I think the only way that it's
gonna happen is if somehow it happens
through like trickery okay what I mean
is that in excellent it's happening
without my conscious awareness
absolutely because my conscious will
fight you or not you but no whoever the
doctor or the clinician is right right
so it there's two entities
there's the illness which we'll just
refer to as a monster right I don't want
to use demon case anyone with religious
backgrounds think that's like really
[ __ ] weird
the monster is aware of what's trying to
happen likes to live it likes to thrive
yeah and so when it becomes aware that
it's getting attacked or that there's a
need to remove it it will start doing
things to not allow that to happen
whether through thought processes
creating problems etc
and obviously my conscious mind will
resist and so I've theorized and what I
said to the last two doctors the only
way to break this is to bypass the
conscious mind somehow with some
epiphanies or something great I am
I haven't [ __ ] found a way good so so
yeah you know yeah so you remember
earlier when I said I think you can get
better I don't think so I thought I
never do I think so yeah I guess so
I often times do what you're saying
that's that's a lot of how I work so I'm
all about bypassing the conscious mind
and that's why often times you want to
say things to me and that I just could
you know I just don't care right like
you'll be talking about like something
that seems like super important because
it's all coming from up here and I could
give two shits about that that's not
where the money is and I think if I'd
let you talk and I had asked you lots of
questions about your very rich history
we would be nowhere but I think we're
somewhere so all we got to do is bypass
your conscious mind that can be done do
you know how to meditate
I've tried meditation in the past one of
the clinicians used to do meditation but
that gives me a ton of hope do you know
why why because if you had said yes I
know how to meditate and I've meditated
for a long time and I've spent a lot of
time studying meditation and learning
how to meditate then I would be Sol
because the basic thing that I think is
gonna help you is gonna be meditation
but if you don't know how to do it and
you've only dabbled in you haven't
really done it then there's a good
chance there's still hope for you the
other thing that I think we need to
teach you how to do is feel your
emotions so depression is anger turned
against the self this is what one of the
psychoanalyst it's believed that
essentially like what we call depression
is just anger that's directed inwardly
as opposed to outwardly and I think that
makes sense for you so I think you just
have a lot of anger your problem is not
I mean so once again oversimplifying etc
so I'm glad you're actually seeing real
you know treat treaters and stuff
because
they're gonna know better than I do
because they've spent the time to learn
all about you whereas I have not at the
same time I think it starts by letting
yourself feel anger right it starts by
you saying and this is a hard thing to
say that this happened to me and it
really shouldn't have in it's shitty and
there's no explaining it and it sucks
and I did not deserve it but it happened
anyway because your mind is so good at
creating meaning and so good at creating
logic and so good at creating
explanations that just random acts of
violence and awfulness just have no
place in your head which is really what
you should acknowledge is that sometimes
just bad [ __ ] happens and you don't
deserve it but your inability to like
experience that means that you've got
this weird like you're like a septic
tank that's just full and like never
drains because like bad [ __ ] happens to
you and happens to you and happens to
you and no one and you just blame
yourself and so like no like the blame
just sits within you you're like just
just a cesspool of you know stuff and so
I think it's actually oddly enough I
mean the first thing that I try to do is
feel anger just start there and just
feel it and learn how to meditate and
then we can talk further but I mean I
think I think there's hope for you
because I think if you're generally
speaking I tend to be hopeful when I
understand people because I think if I
understand them that means that there's
some sort of like logic or rhythm to it
and there's like a system and if you
understand the system then you can
improve the system now I'm not saying
it's easy I'm not saying it's gonna
happen anytime soon but at the end of
the day LSU just have some I mean I
think some really like low-hanging fruit
in terms of the way that you look at
yourself the lack of things that you do
your tendency to over intellectualize
and like push away your feelings because
they don't matter to you I think it's
also very hopeful to me because you
understand this so like I don't know if
you remembered let me just see
can I hold on is it okay if I show
people the last few DMS starting
starting starting like this can I share
that with people yeah sure so like this
is what we're talking about chat so
these last DMS that I sent you because
I'm glad you recognized it as an is its
own thing yeah so like it's its own
voice I've referred to it as another me
yes oh good I know it sounds really
weird to say it's no but the easiest
analogy is to compare it to like a
religious possession right it's an at
its another entity it's another person
that is aware of itself and that will
stop it no means to defend itself yes
and this comes back as my original
question which is do you want to let go
of fear no the answer is no no right so
this thing that I call the badness like
there's a thing inside you that we
absolutely have to bypass because this
thing is a protective mechanism it's a
survival mechanism and it's not going to
abandon you because it's afraid that if
it abandons you then you've got nothing
it's fear it's blame it's agency its
power because if everything is your
fault then you have a road forward so
it's subtle and it's it's dangerous and
this is the really important thing to
understand about it it's not bad or evil
it's something that you needed for a
long time to keep you alive in this
situation and now it's time to move past
which is not destroy it which is not
make it go away which is actually to
like help it calm down because it's
trying to protect you so the way it's
kind of like getting a guard dog that's
like super agitated like how do you get
it to calm down you got to get it to
calm down yeah and it's gonna be with
you for the rest of your life but it
doesn't have to control you thoughts
questions yeah well I mean I I agree
with everything you're saying I just
don't know how I have never yeah I've
never I've never found it in fact one of
the really sad things a few shrinks past
my case along sure which is that that
that's some of the work that that's one
of the worst feelings yeah but that's I
mean that's something you must be very
coastal with because people um
passing it made me it eventually made me
get to a point where I just thought it
almost made me feel special in a weird
way like my case was so [ __ ] up
because I didn't have violent tendencies
didn't have drug abuse
I was always straightedge I've never
even dabbled and stuff etc I was just
this depressed anxious kid and for some
reason shrinks and therapists were
giving up and so it made me think there
was just no end game because we always
tried to hit it with so many different
things
CBT different medication different
styles different approaches and nothing
ever worked so it always just comes full
circle to doesn't matter how I'm feeling
I'm gonna get up every day because I
must yeah because you know so that's
that's the thing right so like that's
what we need to change is that like it
does matter what you're feeling that's
what's got to change because like right
now you have all of this just emotion
pent up within you and it has nowhere to
go
so it starts to cannibalize like that's
what the psychoanalysts I think I mean
I'm not an expert in this mean by like
depression is anger turned against the
self and you're not willing to give your
anger to others so it's just got like in
you know it's like it just doesn't
disappear like that's not how emotions
work and so there may be a lot of stuff
around gaming and things in terms of
like coping mechanisms and things like
that um but yeah I mean I'm hopeful for
you in the sense that or let me put it
this way I'm not willing to give up hope
on you yet because I think that you have
a very good understanding of what is
going on inside you I think it's good
that you understand that this thing has
a vested interest in staying alive and
staying strong and that you do have to
bypass it completely agree you're not
there are there ways to do that I mean
literally meditation is the process of
shutting off your mind and you if you
shut off your mind this thing will turn
off too so anyway I think there are a
lot of things that we're gonna I'm gonna
talk about a little bit later in terms
of Karma which is like how to find
purpose and meaning in life cuz I think
you've got a lot of other stuff too like
sort of the the what would you call like
the reaching the plateau and it feeling
empty summit syndrome yes the actual
term for it yeah we're gonna actually
talk about I mean that that's so so I
prepared something like a lecture which
I think is the first step to solving
that problem there are other things that
that you know I'm hopeful for you I mean
I I've worked with some people who
really are treatment refractory and
sometimes I'm not able to help them but
I've also had a fair number of people
whose other psychiatrists turn away and
and like have seen person after person
after person after person and end up
trying some of these things and then
they get better
and so I'm foolishly optimistic no okay
what are you feeling
so bite my initial thought right is what
type of people were the ones that you
couldn't help now it's my initial
thought
and then what kind of demographic would
that be and based on the language that
you've used with me in the short time
that we've interacted with each other
things that you've talked about and the
questions what type of personality would
not be receptive to such stuff and then
I try to match it to mine and I look for
the mirrors and the Cascades and try to
think what that could mean for yesterday
and puzzle yeah so you know what we're
gonna do okay well not answer your
question okay
nice right so what where is that
question operating no I'm just I'm
relaying it to you that that's my
initial thought X that's all so now I'm
gonna ask you where is that question
operating what part of you does it
operate them
it's kind of a weird question um the be
hope part yes so even simply it operates
within your MO so basically right but
the light and will refer to it as the
light in the darkness
right so the light wants to ask
something and the darkness drives it out
not only that but sometimes the light
gets answers in the darkness co-op's the
answers and reinforces its beliefs about
you correct yes yes that's why I'm not
gonna answer I'm not gonna play that
[ __ ] game because no matter what I
say right right the darkness is gonna
win you're right if I play the game the
darkness is gonna win because it it
takes all of the beautiful questions
that the light asks and then warps them
and turns it into this weird zombie
salami
right so right now I feel like that's
like it's like it's it's it's a one
battle right but then it's perceiving
the it it's a war right yeah so I know
that's really [ __ ] up today or maybe
it maybe it's just not to say that I
know I'm okay
just you could think whatever like
you're conceptualizing abstracting
understanding understanding and we're
just not gonna indulge and it looks like
okay I should say something because
we've had a couple people Sears up his
gifted us like a thousand subs so thank
you sir so what I can't actually count
how many there are
but I probably should have I don't know
people have been sometimes people are
like gifting and donating a lot and then
just get lost in here yeah so people
thank you all for the subs I I mean I
don't know there's just too many on the
screen so maybe it's less people are
saying it's 40 or to 50 40 I don't know
I can't count I'm a psychiatrist because
I can't do math if I could do math I
would have been engineer mathematician
economist finance okay last questions LS
for you huh any questions you have no no
yeah okay let me see there are a couple
of questions
okay so here's a question question anger
turned against yourself any backstory or
a book whatever to indulge into it
because it seems crucial I don't know
what that means but anger turned against
yourself yes so I mean I don't know how
else to explain it but I don't know if
you guys are getting this but ls has a
really pathologic absence of anger
right unless like you should be angry at
all comics well this is interesting
I never felt anger until this year I
what I mean by anger is I never fell
urges to lash out or anything okay but
I've had instances of it this year but
it was I attributed it to certain
triggers which I've identified and then
managed okay so it yeah everyone is
talking about you playing league and how
that's clearly BS so let me just okay so
what they're referring to there's a rate
there's rage compilation clips and
basically what's happening is when you
stream for ten twelve hours a day
and you have people tell you things that
aren't true or ask you things repeatedly
over and over there's breaking points
when you have so much other noise going
on and so I lash out because it feels
like any answers I give or say is
irrelevant anyway and I already don't
want to be doing what I'm doing but I'm
doing it out of fear and they can't see
it as such and so I lash out that I
can't actually convey to them what is
truly happening and so I don't I
wouldn't call that anger in the way that
someone else would call it anger I don't
know what you just said but once again
that's a very beautiful intellectual you
know like analytical I mean I don't know
I thought I thought that much is clear
to my mind you don't blame them I'm not
trying to I'm not trying to like say
that what you're saying I'm not trying
to dismiss what you're saying I really
do think I'm not being sarcastic I think
it's like very well thought out and very
well analyzed I'm just saying that like
that's not that's not what's gonna get
you better I also think that like rage
rage in gaming is it so it's it's whole
separate thing right like that's yeah
it's just manifests itself through
gaming you start getting angry not at
the game it's you're thinking about what
someone else is doing to you you start
taking it personal or you start thinking
their life problems and struggles that
you're being made aware of duty
things that are happening like maybe you
committed 20 20 minutes or 30 minutes to
a game the game didn't go your way
because the game didn't go your way you
only had one hour free time that day you
think about all the time that was wasted
you really got to learn how to just shut
that off man I can't it's always going I
know times the that's why I'm saying you
got to learn how to shut it off just
Jesus okay I'm gonna give you another
question we're gonna ask him other
question okay no the only time it shuts
off is when I'm eating if that's
interesting for you okay so I actually
get very mad talk to me when I'm eating
it's peaceful okay so you're analyzing
again I'm always analyzing yes I know so
just just stop first I'm trying to catch
on okay yes I wanted twitch chat' saying
eat more feelings okay how do you know
when you should cut ties in a toxic
relationship or invest in trying to make
it better okay so that's kind of an
interesting question any thoughts about
that
tell us how how to I'm sorry how do you
know when to invest and cut ties in a
toxic relationship or invest in making
it better when both or what I guess when
one party is heading in another
direction than the other would be a
pretty good indicator of when ties need
to be cut because normally relationships
are founded upon mutual interests or
mutual direction right I think that's
actually how humans can originally
become attracted right is when they
realize that there's some sort of
direction that they can go with one
another sometimes there's really [ __ ]
up versions where people look for broken
people because they realized the
direction they want to go in is by
dragging someone and that's obviously a
dark path but toxic if there's ever a
separation of paths in either one party
I would imagine that would be best to
cut ties okay yeah I mean I think that
makes sense I think the challenge is
that a lot of people have trouble seeing
that and they have trouble seeing that
you guys let people aren't on the same
page so my answer to that question would
be a little bit different so I think
when it comes to a relationship this is
I guess we're
to the talk that we're gonna have which
a lot of these questions do so that
tells me it's a good talk so you should
do your daughter mine the relationship
and you shouldn't do more than what
you're autonomous so I think the what I
mean by that is your Dharma means your
duty or responsibility so you should do
what your part of the relationship is
and you should not do more so for
example I think a lot of when you talk
about invest in making it better a lot
of people invest in relationships trying
to fix them but you can't fix a
relationship it takes two people to fix
a relationship so how do you it's and
it's not about cutting ties or investing
it's about doing what you should do
doing your daughter more to the
relationship and then not doing any more
so another brilliant psychiatrist once
told me something that I think is just
amazing the doctor who goes at the extra
mile for the patient goes a mile too far
okay and so I think you should do what
you're supposed to do in a relationship
and then like that's it don't do more
because you can't do the other person's
portion right like you can take 50% of
the relationship on your shoulders but
if you cross over into 51% or 60% or 70%
you can't take that away from them it's
just not going to work it's not gonna be
a healthy relationship which doesn't
mean that all relationships are like
5050 like sometimes you know doing your
part of the relationship is temporarily
or even sustainably doing more than then
they are so it's not about 50/50 it's
like what's your tournament so you know
I I don't mean to say I think you should
be your part and sometimes your part is
50/50 if you've got like a younger
brother who's like disabled or
handicapped like your Dharma in that
relationship is gonna be greater than
his in terms of like bringing the
groceries in from the car so it's to do
your entire mind to do no more so I
think you should invest what you're
supposed to and then don't I and if they
don't reciprocate or they don't do what
they're supposed to do then then that
relationship is over not even then like
cut ties implies that you never
engage in that relationship again but I
think that that too so you may have like
let's say your your LS is estranged with
his mom so I think his Dharma is to do
you know it depends on the specifics of
the situation but generally speaking to
try to be a good son and if at some
point you know I I'm not saying that you
I'm not placing a judgment on you but in
my mind I think that if at some point
she comes around and and starts to
behave like normally and recognizes that
things have changed and she's really
trying to turn over a new leaf I think
yeah it is a dharma of a psychotic yeah
to like meeting the right way yeah yeah
but but that LS can't can't go 90
percent of the way like that's just not
gonna be healthy it's not gonna work so
that's that's okay so has anything with
your parents relationship affected you
in any way that would contribute to the
way your mental state works
not be intruding or anything but
wondering if it could be a route to such
a problem which it may not but in the
odd case if it is please please try to
reflect on this so do you think anything
with your parents relationship affected
you in any way that would contribute to
your the way your mental state works
everything yeah right my hand literally
everything hearing hearing my own name
is really weird like even right now
right we keep using LS hearing Nick is
or well hearing Nicholas is really weird
because that that's only what my mother
would call me sometimes but usually I
only heard Nick from like my uncle's my
cousins etc right and so if I didn't see
them that often where obviously there's
other ways to refer to someone in person
which is just to address them in a
generic sense like hey or just starts
talking in the direction and whatnot but
hearing derogatory words used to refer
to me it was very common growing up so
you know hearing bastard or
son-of-a-bitch
or [ __ ] you know anything uh different
different people like not all like yet
people that were yeah yeah family
members that I had eight people growing
up my Gretel my grandparents my uncle's
my sister
and aunts on yeah I don't know my stance
on yeah
so and then my mother ended up getting
her own house when I think I turned 12
she ended up getting her own house but I
didn't move in with her until after my
grandfather passed okay and then I lived
with my father and stepmother briefly
and then I went back to living with my
father and stepmother and then I ended
up living with my stepmother because my
stepmother and my father got a divorce
and my stepmother kept me unbeknownst to
my mother but refused to let my father
take me
hmm my stepmoms one of the closest
people in my life
still it's basically her and my
grandmother now yeah it sounds like
she's more like a real mom yeah I would
I would call her mom I don't but I mean
I I could for all intents and purposes I
have known her since I was two or
something
yeah so another question for you so for
LS does he realize that he has viewers
that care about him and respect him does
that affect him I've thought about this
a lot I get really mad when people
credit me with things that I don't
actually deserve or that I didn't do I
get really mad in general with false
credit or I get really angry when people
don't properly evaluate people in this
industry or just in general so sometimes
when I talk to people that are like fans
of me or acquaintances or something if
they falsely attributed me with me with
stuff due to like nepotism or something
else I actually get pretty angry not
angry in the way that we're talking
about anger I just get very very
frustrated and I want them to do better
or I want them to not credit me falsely
hurt or something like that and return
in regards to like people that care
that's
it's a really weird thing to say because
people always say that they they care
but only
if it benefits them in some way is how I
perceive that
because people always say they care no
they don't they care when it benefits
them in some way because altruism truism
am I saying this right [ __ ] genuine
care or one-sided I've never seen
instances of it there's always something
that is benefiting it sometimes maybe
someone will drop groceries you'll go
over a girl or a little smile is falling
apart
yeah it's clipping out the hole up all
the way freaking it
Oh hold on let me reconnect okay but we
don't need
so I think what we managed to do is when
we asked LS how do you feel about your
viewers caring about you we managed to
actually answer the previous question
which is where the was the way that you
raised by your parents does that affect
your mental state and here we see the
answer right this is the answer we're
seeing it so now you guys see
Hey can you hear me yep as your dream
live again okay yep my stream has been
live so the the grocery thing is
interesting
so I there's there's there's two points
of it one is observed by public and one
is not observed so Wendy I'm confused so
okay so if if someone is carrying
groceries and they drop their groceries
and someone goes over and if someone
goes over and picks up the groceries and
gives it to the how to keep the person
says thank you and smiles and there's
people that can perceive that as they
care for the other person but what they
care about in my eyes or most likely is
seeing the smile in the thank you so
that they can feel self gratitude or
something else it's not a hundred
percent nice or a hundred percent caring
there is something in it for them
and then the non observed one is the one
that I have to think more about when
there's no one else around to see the
groceries
what are they really doing that for but
then maybe it's because of a memory of
another relative or something else and
they imagine that that person would like
if someone did it for them and so
they're doing it to live vicariously
through a memory or something I don't
[ __ ] know anyways um I don't even
think most of the people living in my
house actually care about me
which is fine I think that they're aware
of Who I am in this industry and what it
means to potentially be around me and
that's fine I care about like setting
them up and making sure that they have
stuff that I didn't have in my early
years in Korea and as it's it's a really
weird feeling what do you get out of
that
uh well I the the loneliness thing sort
of covered right I've thought about that
angle that we talked about earlier
there's people around I obviously get
the yeah I do still feel lonely but
there's a difference between feeling
lonely and having my own thoughts echo
off itself versus there's other people
around it's something weird I don't know
maybe it has to do with something with
yeah I don't think you understand what
caring looks like I made okay to be
blunt
it sucks yeah I mean I think people
genuinely care about you and I don't
think you know getting back to your
wonderful question which is why are you
this way and I think it's because you
didn't have a whole lot of people
Express caring about you and goes back
to all the stuff about you know not
being able to be the person that you are
not being accepted for who you are being
shaped in one way being blamed at one
way there we go again there it is
fairness
so notice yeah notice it notice of
course I can notice it okay so so close
your eyes close your eyes okay close
your eyes
okay sure okay now nope keep it closed
okay close close your eyes okay okay
notice that thing within you that wants
to speak right what does it feel like I
feel like context I feel like every
piece of a puzzle matters and that it
can't truly be understood without every
piece okay so so and is it important to
understand a puzzle
I feel like we're making we're trying to
solve the wheel of fortune puzzle
without just having every letter when Z
you knock with more lines what do you
feel I feel like I want you to know
every letter what does that feel like
in your body it feels like a it feels
like an absence of a hundred percent
okay what does that feel like good now
we're getting somewhere
yeah it just doesn't feel complete it's
empty yes
ninety-nine percent is the same thing as
zero beautiful what does that feel like
describe the physical sensations yes
good frustration yeah frustration with
who uh everything now you're just people
huh frustrated with you yeah yeah myself
frustrated with me no not well yeah kind
of
there we go good job good job
yeah but everything yeah good yeah
what's your mind doing right now
compartmentalizing the conversation okay
right but for a moment it wasn't now
you're back we so we took that thing
whether we call the badness or the demon
or whatever and we knocked it off base
for a few seconds few seconds yeah yeah
and now it's back it righted itself
right it's an operating it yeah and the
goal is to keep trying to get small
victories there it is there it is you
see it it's back good so open your eyes
yeah good you've taken your first step
forward how does that feel I've done
this a few times good its yeah it's okay
in the moments
it feels relieving and then it sucks
right back in yes and okay let's
understand this okay cuz we should okay
we got to stop this interview soon but
let's understand this because I can't
let these go
okay yeah why do you get sucked back in
you feel relief right and you felt
relief because you were anger at who who
who were you angry at um I think that
you're respecting me to say me here
you're expecting me to say me but now
I'm starting to think about childhood
people right now [ __ ] no you're you're
angry at me right like you were like why
doesn't this [ __ ] guy let me talk I
just want to talk like no no I just
actually started giving angry childhood
people
oh okay weird all right so baby this is
gonna be way easier than I thought I
thought that we would have this time
where like me you get angry at me and
that would be displaced anger and it
would take you a while to be angry at
people in my childhood I played out all
the lines and I have Rove or I I arrived
at the end of the lines it must original
it must deduce down to that's not what
I'm talking about I'm not talking about
the end of the line so we're gonna have
to do this again so we're gonna train
your mind to meditate and notice what is
in the moment because I do I would be
very surprised if you were actually
angry at people in your childhood my
sense not genuinely I actually I'm
thinking about three in particular I
know that sounds weird but are you
normally angry with people in your
childhood or is this new for you
no this is this is this is kind of new
I'm thinking about it a lot right now
okay so then you keep going so I'm gonna
just leave you where you are and you
just sort that out I'm actually gonna
say normally rationalize it no yes you
just okay so let's go back to why do you
stop feeling relief do you understand
this
other thoughts start making more noise
and then exactly so your mind
reactivates and you start deducing again
and when you are deducing you don't feel
good because your deductions are full of
like cognitive biases so the machine
starts that's why it's temporary because
you can't restrain the machine the
machine of the mind is just going going
going and it's deducing deducing
deducing understanding understanding
understanding which is brilliant
brilliant brilliant and also away from
your feelings away from your feelings
away from your feelings yeah so we just
the less your machine is active the more
you can restrain yourself and the more
you can just be in the moment the more
you will start to feel better and like
understand things like people in your
childhood deserve hatred like that's
what you need right is to like if
someone did something shitty to you
instead of blaming yourself blame them
and it sounds like you just took a step
forward so yippee thanks good okay I
gotta take a break for a little bit okay
and then I'm gonna talk about in karma
you're welcome to tune in I think if you
want to reflect on this because it's
like you know sweet sweet high-grade
opium for a heroin addict for your mind
- like reflect on something new then by
all means do so but notice like you
notice how you feel now and notice how
you're gonna feel at the end of that
reflection I don't know exactly what to
predict there but good job today and
then after you finish cuz I don't want
you to I don't want to pull away I
already pulled your mind away from
things already so at the end and like
maybe 45 minutes or so I'm gonna teach
meditation if it's not if it's not super
late for you you can watch it later but
I think you should learn how to meditate
because I think it's gonna help you'll
love it okay Ellis you will love it once
you get good at it because it's gonna
help you understand things outside of
intellectualization which is amazing I
think you're gonna learn huh okay so
closing thoughts
um I I had too many thoughts there we go
close I'm not beautiful so Ellis that's
great so you see what you did
you saw instead of just launching into
the autopilot of your mind you're like
oh like there goes my mind again you
just gained like a little bit like you
got one out you just mind like a mineral
like you can't do anything with a
mineral it's not even 8 minerals it's
just a mineral you mind a mineral and if
you keep on mining those minerals
eventually you will be able to build you
play Zerg my plate Terran Terran yeah of
course you'll get you'll get her but
that's good that's good you're learning
fast you're learning faster okay so um
okay good so good yeah that's great you
see you noticed like the Machine of your
mind is going going going going going
that's good okay so I'm gonna take a
break for like two or five minutes
because I'm gonna drink something in pee
and then we're gonna go back I'm gonna
do a quick lecture on the harm oh we'll
do more questions and we'll do
meditation okay am i same here for this
or I'm gonna hang up with you but you're
welcome to watch the stream yeah what's
the stream okay I haven't promised
people that I would like talk about a
concept from start to finish okay all
right thanks a lot man
strong work really amazing good job
tonight
Thanks bye okay so we're gonna okay
we're gonna we're gonna help him like
despite his best efforts to resist [ __ ]
that we're gonna we're gonna help him
even if he doesn't want it